Alon pinkos is a former Israeli Diplomat
he was Ambassador and Consul general of
Israel in New York he joins us from Tel
Aviv a very warm welcome to aler so I'm
not sure if you heard what Mustafa bouti
the uh Secretary General of the
Palestinian national initiative had to
say there but under no Illusions in his
mind the ultimate goal of Israel is to
completely occupy and Annex of course
the occupied West Bank do Israelis share
that
view um no no I you know we could we
could look at the border I heard what
Mustafa bti said NE and I and I happen
to agree with much of what he had said
but I don't think there's any plan to uh
um to Annex uh wide SWAT of the uh of
the West Bank only because Israel is too
afraid to do so and has been very
reluctant to do so for many many years
that being
established um and while a military
operation could be somehow I'm not
familiar with the exact details could be
justified on grounds of uh um actionable
intelligence in terms of
counterterrorism the political uh um um
angle the political aspect is far more
important and this is where I agree with
Mr
barouti um this is this government is
intent on weakening the Palestinian
Authority if you recall NE just a few
months ago even though everyone stopped
talking about it there was there was
talk of a post-war Gaza plan that would
include the Palestinian Authority
extending its governance to the West
Bank now that talk has stopped for some
reason because is apart from um other
reasons Israel was recalcitrant and
defiant and engaging it but now with
this operation Israel is weakening the
Palestinian Authority to the point that
there's no there's not going to be
anyone to negotiate with and that is the
grand plan that the government has when
you say that uh Israel is afraid to
Annex the occupied West Bank who or what
are they afraid of you talking about the
United States
here well no no no no well first there's
something very simple you know between
the Jordan River on the East and the
Mediterranean uh Sea on the west there
are roughly 15 million people and the uh
um the distribution is 50% Israeli Jews
50% Palestinian Arabs you take take a
percentage off here and there it doesn't
matter in terms of demographics it's an
equilibrium that means that if Israel an
next territories with population not
only is it illegal from an international
point of view let's assume that Israel
is uh not worried and not concerned by
that uh um aspect but in terms of of of
governance uh uh what are you going to
do are you going to INF franchise the
Palestinians that's fine that's okay um
that means a one by National State uh
the chances of that are working are
lower than zero just look at
Yugoslavia um is Israel going to
disenfranchise the Palestinians well
then you have a fullblown apite state
something which I don't think exists now
although know that let me jump in there
because many Palestinians of course
would argue that what we're seeing and
what is supported by this right-wing
Israeli government is already a form of
creeping annexation when it comes to
accelerated settlement
building well yes I I I I I know that
argument I'm familiar with that argument
but if you look at the map closely NE
you will see that the expansion of
settlements which I am not uh um
advocating one bit but the expansion of
settlements or in the three settlement
blocks that even if you go back to the
Clinton parameters following Camp David
in the year of 2000 uh 24 years ago uh
these settlement blocks will be annexed
to Israel in in uh according to those
parameters according to that plan now I
don't know how relevant that plan is
today how applicable it is it probably
isn't we need to look at different
modalities but you're not going to find
any modalities if you're weakening the
Palestinian Authority into complete
dysfunction which is why I understand
when people are saying as you just said
Neeve that they uh that there's a
creeping annexation uh but but it's not
real annexation because that has legal
uh implications that Israel has not used
until now okay I'm very keen to uh cast
an eye on what's going on inside Israel
on the power play the power dynamics of
play at the moment there I mean you
recently wrote that Israel's entire
political opposition should resign as a
form of resistance to Netanyahu is that
what you meant by
that yeah yeah yeah yeah it's explained
in the article itself look uh uh the
opposition has been very weak very
feeble very uh lethargic U um out of
ideas devoid of any creativity what I
asked them to do obviously in an article
not not that I had any expectations of
them actually rising to the occasion is
to unilaterally and collectively resign
from Parliament that's a constitutional
crisis that essentially will bring down
the government now you can you can find
57 reasons why it won't happen I I
subscribe to all of them but my point is
the dynamic right now is that there is
an extraordinarily unpopular prime
minister the latest poll from yesterday
shows that nearly 70% of Israelis want
him to resign
including including 46% of people who
said they had voted for him in in the
latest election that was 2022 just two
years ago um yet at the same time his
his parliamentary blot is is uh pretty
stable despite what many including me uh
many people thought uh uh that it would
crumble it didn't uh you know the uh uh
the scent of power intoxicates them too
much um but uh that that is why I call
for the opposition to do you know a Hail
Mary if you will to borrow a Christian
term and do something out of the box out
of the box I'm sorry out of the ordinary
um I don't have any hopes that they will
do so but again um Mr netan is doing
something uh uh very problematic here
very ominous here and that he is
creating a situation an environment in
which further negotiations with the
Palestinians three four five years from
now would probably impossible because be
impossible because of the uh weakness
and the fragility of the Palestinian
Authority Alon pigas uh former Israeli
Diplomat and ex Ambassador and conso
general of Israel in New York it's been
uh really good to hear your thoughts and
all of that thanks for joining us now
Jer thank you
any make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer